Sleepy Saturday
2019-02-09

## 13:30 Planning My Life
I'm going to do a follow-along with a [5-year-plan-how-to](https://medium.com/personal-growth/how-to-create-your-five-year-master-plan-471f57d7b964) article and try to see if it has things a little bit more organized than I have done - I don't think my goals from [`2018-02-04`](./04.md) are bad, but they're all over the place and not really well organized.

### Self-Analysis
First part of this plan is do so some analysis - really it's an ongoing process to introspect/reflect/plan/etc, but you have to do this when you start so I'm starting by doing it.

#### 1. Start Writing
At first, prose > overthinking. Start with a SWOT analysis.

##### Strengths:
- Writing (some types of) code
- Keeping reasonably tidy / organized
- In reasonably good health
- Enjoying my career
- See both sides of an argument
- Observe much, sometimes too much (eavesdropping?)
- ... hmm ill come back

##### Weaknesses:
- Too agreeable / social anxiety (?)
- Sometimes angsty / stewing in frustration
- Easily distracted / prone to temptation
- Not often aware of larger goals
- Projects some insecurities
- ... self-deprecation hole starting to open

##### Opportunities:
- Health - live well
-	Work - become amazing scrum lord
- Shelter - help kids play together
- Teacher - empower learning (June)
- Friend - spread and receive more love
- House - live in a cooler house
- Art - learn piano / blender and be able to make art
- Learn - read books and appreciate art to be more funny / relevant

##### Threats:
- Isolation and therefore self-destruction
- Neglecting my health and getting sick 
- Not being honest and spreading more hell
- Not being diligent and making the wrong house decision

#### 2. Motivations
What drives and inspires me?

- Organization and efficiency
- The idea of my time and presence being appreciated
- Being competent enough in something to make myself a leader
- Interesting art
- Physical prowess
- Trying to understand my sense of identity
- Sacrifice, honesty, trust, and humility
- Not having to worry about money
- The power of being a good listener

#### 3. Skills and Experience
- Moderately above average general education
- Mostly self-taught coder, have job with no degree
- Fairly good at React development
- Confident in math (though not well educated or practiced)
- Some experience with kids
- Some experience giving prepared technical presentations
- Can type near 100 WPM? VIM yay
- Moderately expressive writer?
- ... probably a lot more work-specific stuff here but I will move on for now

#### 4. Transferrable Skills
What can I use that I already know how to do to be able to do more things that I want?

- Technical breakdown practice can be applied to anything that needs regular study.  
The following can all be broken down into objectives and plans in order to establish compounding positive feedback.
	- piano
	- socialization
	- blender
	- home buying
	- health maintenance
- Observational and both-sides-observing skills can guide me through reflecting on if I've met my objectives 
- Optimization skills can help me shorten the time it takes to do anything

### The Plan
"High-level" and "Ground-level" breakdown - birds and badgers?
Oh shit. Well this plan kind of breaks down here, this is the last solid piece of advice in this guide, other than to keep both written and electronic records of goals.

One thing that is interesting - Christopher says goes through "thousands of tasks" annually, which doesn't necessarily conflict with the advice from [*The ONE Thing*](https://www.the1thing.com/) book, but the book does suggests that if I lean head first into this kind of smatter-planning that I will be instantly over my head.

First thing I will do is look back at [my goals from earlier this week](./04.md) and see if I can priority rank them, first by HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW, maybe add a few or do a short review, then I will read for a while, maybe see if I can get some exercise and/or clean the fridge, then come back to this.

<table>
<!-- <thead>
<tr>
</tr>
</thead> -->
<tbody>
	<tr>
	<th>HIGH</th>
	<td>
		<li>Prevent Health Problems</li>
		<li>Eat Better</li>
		<li>More Courage</li>
		<li>Optimize</li>
		<li>Spread More Love</li>
	</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
	<th>MEDIUM</th>
	<td>
		<li>More Exercise</li>
		<li>More Piano</li>
		<li>Cook Better</li>
		<li>More Reading</li>
		<li>Own a House</li>
		<li>Cool Birthday Cards</li>
		<li>Don't be cleaning fairy</li>
		<li>More Spanish</li>
		<li>More Art Appreciation</li>
	</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
	<th>LOW</th>
	<td>
		<li>Less Caffeine</li>
		<li>Stay Relevant (too nebulous)</li>
		<li>More History</li>
		<li>Develop dnd Character</li>
		<li>Take Breaks</li>
	</td>
	</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

It's not that I don't want **LOW** things, but that I would rather focus on the stuff above them - maybe they'll still be able to get energy but I won't prioritize them.

**MEDIUM** stuff is important - if I neglect it I will feel the pain, but it cannot come before **HIGH** stuff - and I want to always be working on the **HIGH** stuff. I know a lot of this stuff is pretty nebulous and it should need to be sorted within itself... I'll try to do to that now. Also some things are more passive than active, some things touch on all points of my life (e.g. optimization and courage), but I feel like I can identify those situations, at least pretty easily with the former at work and the later socially.

Breaking the **HIGH** stuff down seems like it would be a good idea - things that seem difficult to get exactly right, like "eat better" ... how do I quantify that? I don't eat terribly bad right now... is a burrito "eating well" as long as I'm focused on macro-nutrition? Perhaps I need to educate myself there before I can start detailing things out. Questions are probably good to start with.

Hmm, I should keep writing but I kinda want to go outside or at least do something not at this desk anymore. It's hard to sit correctly on this exercise ball and I've been putting my feet to sleep with extended stays here.

One thing I will say that's nice - sitting down and spending time reading actually does reward you with decent clarity of thought. I will have to keep doing this ;)

Hmm I have water on the boil for tea... <s>eh, I can</s> just stopped it. Kinda want to walk to the library and get a coffee on the way, will take something to write questions on so I can know what I want to learn.

I have two books to read right now, it's probably not wise to go ham and get like 8 of them, especially since I always seem to get self help books or biographies.

My question: ***What is the healthiest reasonable diet?***

## 17:39 After a Coffee

I went to Brewing Market, had half a medium black drip and brainstormed dietary goals.

Requirements breakdown:
<table>
<thead>
	<tr>
	<th>Reasonability</th>
	<th>Feedback Loop</th>
	</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
	<tr>
	<td>
		<li>$250 / month / person</li>
		<li>1 grocery store trip / week</li>
		<li>weeklong meal-prep friendly</li>
		<li>welcoming enough for others to try</li>
	</td>
	<td>
		<li>specific macro and micro nutrient goals</li>
		<li>clear boundaries of adherence</li>
		<li>specific about when I eat</li>
		<li>ways to prevent and snuff temptation</li>
	</td>
	</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Objectives breakdown:
<table>
<thead>
	<tr>
	<th>Long-Term /<br/> High-Level</th>
	<th>Short-Term /<br/> Low-Level</th>
	</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
	<tr>
	<td>
		<li>prevent health complication</li>
		<li>stop feeling stuffed</li>
		<li>feel in-control / conquer urges</li>
		<li>don't succumb to environmental pressures</li>
		<li>get a better grasp on food's glycemic load</li>
		<li>like more vegetables</li>
	</td>
	<td>
		<li>stay on top of self check-in</li>
		<li>be aware of next meal and comfortable waiting for it</li>
		<li>meal prep for the week</li>
	</td>
	</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Current plan:
- Eat leftover soup (and some veg?) at 8pm, then be done for the day
- Find two meal-preppable recipes that you would feel proud to have eaten / made
- Venn diagram for FODMAP, low-fat, low-carb, low-inflammation, and heart-healthy diets (~30 min study)

I'm getting kind of hungry now... which makes sense cause I haven't eaten since around noon, but I'm going to keep my 8pm goal as long as I can. I have another writing task for myself, which is to breakdown my current understanding of piano, but since I've been pretty much writing straight for a while I'm going to do some reading (1 hour obama book, 1 hour mindfulness book) then get back to it. My back kinda hurts from sitting on the ball I think.

