## 09:29 - Just finishing breakfast

Down three bacon-eggos and most of my red bull with Undiscovered Colors in the background, I want to at least record some of my thoughts from last night and this morning on the bus in.

1. I should start prepping my career day talk
2. I need keep thinking about and working on the JA hackerspace
3. I should fill "down time" with reading instead of computer games
4. I shouldn't use my phone before bed
5. I am probably eating too much
6. I need to plan my day better if I want to reduce anxiety and improve productivity

For (1), I want the "hands-on" portion to be something like a game in Scratch,
or depending on how much of the "computer science" / "software developer" I want to cover vs just "web development".

For (2), I really should just email Grantham and probably visit a few other hackerspaces to get a sense for what works there.
I liked the "learn to weld" workshops or the like that include sign-ups, but there will also probably be club related projects
there and imo you'll end up with people building things like rubix cube solving bots or the like, but idk.

(3/4) can probably help eachother.

Maybe intermittent fasting / no breakfast anymore for (5)?

The last (6) is rather nebulous, but in particular the anxiety I'm trying to reduce comes from feeling like
a day was wasted or that I was unable to sink my teeth in and started flailing around. Because I know I need
to be driving my own objectives a lot of the time, I should get better at defining and pushing them so that I
have a better handle on what progress is.
